What interested me most in the combination of this week's reading with the homework was how they were naturally in contradiction. Galloway opens his argument with an emphasis on the interactivity between operator and machine as the fundamental definition of what a video game is; yet, the homework required the construction of a non-narrative scene that does nothing to allow this interaction to unfold, one which Galloway would place squarely in the intersection of "non-diegetic" and "machinic." He reiterates that "without the active participation of players and machines, video games exist only as static computer code" -- at this early stage of  Godot, we have created projects that are purely visual, and (sure enough) involve a great deal of static computer code (Galloway 2). It would possibly fall into the category of an ambient scene, charged with some kind of expectation but remaining in steady state until interrupted by the operator. One of the design decisions to implement orbital gravity slightly disrupts this observation, however, by creating a system that is not in equilibrium but steady decay; Galloway mentions that ambient states have no significant change to the game's ecosystem without the operator's involvement. 

On the other hand, Device 6 largely occupied the quadrant combining "diegesis" and "operator" actions by creating a narrative that accounted for both the player and their device in its own story. This inversion of the typical boundaries that demarcate the player world from reality is a challenge to Galloway's distinctions between gamic actions, but I think that it furthers what he believes can be so fun about games. They "immerse and enthrall," and Device 6 creates a world where the player has no need to suspend their belief because sitting and watching the game is part of the plot itself (5). At the same time, there's something oddly meta about the way its story is littered with machines and devices that control the "diegetic" operator -- Anna. It might be a suggestion of the fact that this interaction of player and device is an integral piece of video games, regardless of the form it is presented in. 
